The Joe Rogan experience. You know, music industry stuff.
I think, uh,
I've been working really hard to go against the grain of like right now I'm,
self-released like I don't have a record company and I'm self-funded,
and it's really hard. Um,
but it's also really gratifying at the same time because, you know,
right now I, since I left honey, honey, um, you know,
like, honey, honey is kind of on ice for, you know, sort of.
You didn't knew the territory. No.
Yeah. Well, we were figuring it out, you know? Well,
well said, oh my God.
But you know, the, the battle is, um,
getting ahead, you know, and,
and being a woman and being in my thirties and, and not like,
you know, no one wants to hop on board until they know it's working,
even though I made this incredible record and it's so well received.
And then folks are like, yeah, well, you know, calls when it's,
when it's working rather than like, get in now. Right. And, you know,
I feel, I don't feel discouraged by that. I feel informed. Um,
but that that's, uh, also a business move, you know, because it is,
we're taking art and turning it into commerce and no one wants to bet on a horse
that's not winning yet, you know? Um, and you know, I'm pretty,
I feel pretty good about what I'm doing.
I don't think I should be doing something else, but it's still a struggle,
you know? So when I said, I want to change the narrative, it's,
it's sort of like,
I want to kind of prove to myself and
others that like, you can do it. Like you find a way, you know, and it's,
it's really hard. Um, but you can do it, you know,
and you get help from your friends. Like,
this is so cool to be here with you guys. Like, I,
I don't know if I could really convey that enough,
that this is a huge help to what I'm trying to do right now.
Um, but yeah, also this is the thing that keeps me up at night and being like,
oh my God, this is, but at the same time,
you know, um, the music industry, I'll just speak to that right now.
It's tough.
Well, it seems to me, if I,
as an outsider has no business in the music business. When I look at it,
I feel like it's a big ship that had to like cut
parts of itself off. And now it's a smaller ship. And now it's like, whoa,
it's still a pretty big ship, but it's not what it used to be. The,
the money doesn't come in anymore in the form of record sales. So it's,
it's entrenched,
it's tentacles deeper into the industry and other things like merchandise and
live shows and all these different things to stay alive. And maybe it helps,
maybe it doesn't, it depends entirely upon the artist, but I,
what you're doing at your point in your life where you're like, look,
this isn't working. Like what, what do I need to do?
Like being attached to this group is not doing it. Being attached.
That group is not doing it. What's what the is doing it.
Let me just try to not be attached to someone. Yeah. And through the internet,
you have the option to put your stuff out there and it gets a reaction from
people with stuff like this, and then they go, oh, this is talented.
Well, you know, thanks. First of all, it's sweet. I know. I love you.
I love you too. I, it's not like I want to like take over the world.
I just want to like, make a good living, doing what I love. That's all I want,
you know, and it's, it's hard. I know it's hard, but it's also, um,
yeah, like it, it, you know, I want to capture that thing.
I want to get into the right tune into the right radio station and also not have
to worry so much about like,
not having enough to get by, you know, that kind of thing. And it's,
it sounds silly, but it's not like that. That is my reality.
This is the major function of a record label, not hating,
just wondering what's the major function of a record label when you're not
really necessarily selling records. So.
They.
Try to blow up anybody's business. Well, you.
You can, you want to weigh in on this?
I can give a little bit, uh,
there for marketing promotion marketing, um, the,
the folks who help you with budgets for tour, um.
They're a bank.
So when it says like, yeah, just for tour,
is that because you have to lay out money in advance to set up a set and to make
sure that everybody gets to the place,
they have the money to get to the event and set everything up and then,
then they would reap some of the rewards.
So it's almost like an initial investment and then based on return.
Right. So, yeah, so like, you know, it's,
it's expensive to be out on tour. It's,
it's a lot to be out with someone you're paying for anything and everything,
right. You're paying to play basically.
And so what they do is they come in and they'll help you with things like that.
And, and, and, uh, but sometimes it doesn't work for, for people,
you know, and that's,
that's the thing is like people coming to this thing going, oh, I've made it,
I've got this, this deal, but if your record doesn't hit or whatever,
it doesn't hit, then they've invested all this money. So it was kind of,
it puts this extra pressure on you to figure out what you need to
do to make it.
And I think some people go down a different route and would change up,
switch up the thing and, and, and, um, but they, they can be very helpful.
It, it depends on your attitude too. A lot of it is your attitude.
And what you think of like, you know, are you being taken advantage of,
or is this an investment or this is gonna pay off because there's,
so it goes so up and down, you know, depending on.
I would imagine it'd be hard to be free and creative and having a good time with
it.
If you feel like you're being taken advantage of it would put a dark cloud over
Well, there's that,
and I think there's also the misconception that once you get a big record deal
and I've had a, where you think all of a sudden,
like you have to stop doing something and they're going to do it for you.
That is like the biggest mistake you could ever make it. And if anything,
you have to work harder and prove to them that like,
you're kind of worthy of their time and money. You know, sometimes it depends.
It depends on the company, but, you know,
essentially like when you sign a deal with, with these folks,
like they have a lot of your creative integrity in, in some ways,
depending on the deal and how it's shaped. Um, and you know,
they own your copyright. If they want to own your record,
depending on your deal, sometimes you have more leverage than others.
And you know, if that's the case, like, yeah, good for you.
Did they own the whole thing, but they could ever own the whole thing. Well,
I sell, I sell, Philly's sell it for an exorbitant amount of money.
The idea that you would own the whole song, like they would own the writing,
the music [inaudible].
Okay.
So you could still have someone else to that song.
Okay. So I self released my last record, Ruby red,
and I learned a lot because I hired my own PR, um,
and distribution companies.
And I really got into the nuts and bolts on how all this works. And,
um, I'm not sure if this has changed. Cause sometimes this is, you know,
going back and forth. But when you own your copyright,
the digital return on things like Spotify and iTunes are 10 to one.
So when the record companies own your copyright and all of your streaming
is, is like kicking, like just taking off. They're making tons of money on.
Your streaming 10 times more than you are. Yes.
Yes. I know.
Wow. Your labor's now earning over 1 million per hour from streaming.
Holy So they figured it out.
They figured out how to get deeper into the arteries,
like real close to the heart.
The hustle is like trying to get, but they also,
they also have the keys to a lot of doors. You know,
it's like a weird trade-off.
I do,
but I have a feeling if you just look at the landscape that that is less and
less of an issue almost every year. I don't know if they,
as long as you don't create feuds,
I don't think they necessarily have the keys to arenas.
I think if you go through major agencies that that's solved and I think
distribution over the internet, just through people,
finding out about it and sharing it, tossing it around,
it's probably as useful if not better than anything. Right.
Because I'll find out about it. Podcast, find out about it.
And people on Twitter find out about it. They retweet, people,
Instagram repost stuff.
And then it hits millions and millions and millions and millions of people,
a hundred percent organic. And it happens all the time when is good. I mean,
it's almost like you're your bank rolling on
it. Not being a good idea. If you do it with somebody else, it's like,
what you're doing is like bankrolling yourself. You're saying, look,
I believe in myself, let's just put this out.
Whereas if you deal with a label, you have to, so many people have to be,
and there's nothing wrong with it.
And I'm sure it's worked out great for both of you and on numerous occasions.
But someone who has to believe in you, you have to,
you have to work with someone there's a lot involved.
And I'm sure like, well, first of all, there are some great companies.
I don't know what, like, you know, what, what label you work with,
but we're good.
Like some of them and obviously, cause you're,
you're amazing and you're crushing it. And you know,
like some companies, that's not the case and you know,
people's jobs depend on your success and if they're scared and they go in and
this, in this way that it's not like, um,
it doesn't hit or something like they drop you fast and you know,
I'll I'll speak. Oh yeah. Hmm. Maybe not.
[Inaudible] together. Well,
you remember when prince had to change his name to a symbol? Oh yeah. Yeah.
Exactly. That is a perfect.
Perfect example. Imagine you are trying to keep prints. That's just business.
G O a T is of all time, right?
I mean all time goats he's he was androgynous before
anybody knew what the it was. He was dancing around with high heels.
No one could say because it was so good.
Think about all the homophobia we were talking about. Transphobia homophobia.
Think about all the he must've endured in like 1988
or whatever the it is when he put out that first album and it didn't matter.
And everybody was so good. Everybody had just had a step,
the back like purple rain. It was the way he was dressed was ridiculous.
Imagine if Ryan Reynolds was in a movie about a singer who dressed like
Princeton turbo grade, he'll say he's so good.
He gave himself a handicap. He said, I'm going to dress like a king.
I say because my music is so good.
He would drive up in a motorcycle helmet, shut the up. I'm doing that right.
I want him prince. He was on another planet. Like, come on.